Dear Gionata Massi,
thank you for submitting your abstract.

Please carefully check the information below to be the one you intended to  
submit us.
Paper Title: Robust platform assignment in bus stations
Speaker: Gionata Massi, Dipartimento di Ingegneria Informatica, Gestionale e  
dell'Automazione - Università Politecnica delle Marche
Co-Authors:
Gianluca Morganti Dipartimento di Ingegneria Informatica, Gestionale e  
dell'Automazione - Università Politecnica delle Marche,
Ferdinando Pezzella Dipartimento di Ingegneria Informatica, Gestionale e  
dell'Automazione - Università Politecnica delle Marche,
      ,


Abstract:
The assignment of buses arriving to available gates is a major issue during  
the daily operations in a bus station. Such a problem is known in literature  
as Gate Assignment Problem and consists, given the daily bus schedule, in  
determining the best feasible assignment of the buses to the gates based on  
certain preference criteria. In order for a solution to be feasible at least  
two constraints have to be satisfied: each bus must be assigned to one and  
only one platform and two buses whose time intervals of platform occupation  
overlap cannot be assigned to the same platform [1].
Problems similar to gate assignment in bus stations arise in the management  
of airports, train stations, ports, freight villages and so on. There are  
also strong similarities with the register assignment problem in Digital  
Signal Processors [2].
In the bus station case, manager may require that the bus-platform assignment  
plan occupies the minimum number of platforms during the planning horizon.  
For this problem we propose a novel formulation as a restricted-coloring  
problem of an interval graph and an integer linear programming model to solve  
it.
Trip delays such as early or late arrivals and late departures are a frequent  
occurrence in actual day to day bus station operations and it is often not  
possible to assign such buses to their original platforms. For this reason we  
considered a mathematical programming model to increase the robustness of the  
solutions by the minimization of the probability that buses assigned to the  
same gate may be "in conflict" [3].
Finally, in order to generate a good solution in a reasonable computation  
time, we also propose a heuristic algorithm, based on the idea to solve the  
problem by dividing it into smaller sub-problems, using a receding horizon  
control, and then reconstructing the complete solution.
Computational experiments on a real bus station with 24 platform and more  
than 200 bus trips have been performed showing the effectiveness of the  
approach.

Keywords:
Bus station management, Gate assignment, Restricted coloring, Interval  
graphs, Heuristic methods

References:
[1].1.	B. Adenso-Díaz, “Rule-based system for platform assignment in bus  
stations,” in Multidisciplinary Scheduling: Theory and Applications.  
Springer US, pp. 369–379, 2005.
[2].2.	T. Zeitlhofer and B. Wess, “List-coloring of interval graphs with  
application to register assignment for heterogeneous register-set  
architectures,” Signal Processing, vol. 83, no. 7, pp. 1411 – 1425, 2003.
[3].3.	A. Lim and F. Wang, “Robust airport gate assignment,” in ICTAI 05.  
17th IEEE International Conference on Tools with Artificial Intelligence, pp.  
74 –81, 2005.



Submitted on Saturday, April 30, 2011 - 11:58
